Imagine this: you are sitting on the GO bus, commuting to work early on a Monday morning. 
As the bus progresses closer and closer to Union station, you look out the window and unsurprisingly, the rush-hour 
traffic is worse than ever before. The buses and trucks are at a complete standstill with the smaller automobiles desperately
trying and failing to weave through the vehicular maze. With all of this time spent sitting in traffic, you begin to wonder
why traffic even exists in the first place. Couldn’t there be a more optimal way in which cars could be routed such that the
overall average commute time is shorter? 

Well, the answer to that question is probably yes, but it doesn’t mean that this situation would ever arise in the real world. 
In reality, driving a car is very strategic. In addition, a mixture of the early morning coffee-fix, along with the sound of 
honking horns and screeching tires usually brings out our primal instincts for self-preservation. Within this “game” of 
driving we can therefore assume that everyone will be completely selfish and always act in their own best interest, whether 
that is to the benefit or the detriment of others.

With this combination of strategy and selfishness, we can come to the conclusion that even if there is a way that cars can be
routed such that the overall time that everyone spends driving is minimized, there will always be people who will see an
opportunity to even further decrease their individual commute time, and will jump on that opportunity, not giving a second
thought to whether this will benefit the system as a whole. Because of this selfishness, if we consider a collection of 
traffic on a road network, we are going to be very interested in this “equilibrium” point, where essentially, no one can
maximize their personal gain anymore, and how this differs from the “optimal” point, which is where the average overall
commute time on this road network is minimized.

Unfortunately for you, this interesting outlook on traffic doesn’t help your individual situation on the GO bus this morning
very much. But on a larger scale, the study of routing traffic from a logical and mathematical perspective could be useful,
and could impact the lives of every commuter. For instance, when planning to build roads, we should always consider how 
adding roads will affect which routes commuters take, assuming that everyone will try to maximize their own gain. When trying
to understand traffic, and ultimately, how to minimize it, we should look at the paths through the network that large 
amounts of people will take, and determine how this will affect the commute time of the others cars in the system. The reason
that this is important is because if we can take these abstract concepts, and apply them to create explanations and models
for how traffic works in the real world, then maybe one day, politicians will consult traffic-theory professionals who can
comment on the mathematics of traffic before making decisions about transit and roads, ultimately shortening your painfully
long morning commute, as much as possible.
